- Hello, YouTube. Hello, Thomas.
Thanks for being here. - Hello.
- Good to have you on the channel at the moment
and on the podcast and just shortly after.
So, those of you out there watching live,
please put your comments and thoughts into the live chat
and we'll try to make it part of the show.
If you're watching later, thanks for watching.
But can't put them...
Can't put your comments on the show,
but we still appreciate them.
All right, with that, let's kick it off, Thomas.
Thomas, welcome to Talk Python America.
Thomas, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
>> Hey, thanks so much for having me.
>> Yeah, it's great to have you here.
I'm excited to talk about privacy.
I feel like there was this period
where everyone just gave up and decided privacy doesn't matter,
either because it was a good trade-off for them at the time,
or they just decided it was
trying to push a rock up a hill
that was never going to make it to the top,
and so you just don't stress about it.
but I feel like things are coming back a little bit
and we all get to be semi-autonomous beings again.
- Yeah, there's definitely been that feeling that,
and I think actually it a little bit mirrors
the way things are going with AI now, right?
Where people feel like the genie's out of the bottle,
how do we put it back?
But I think we've actually seen that happen successfully
with privacy where there was a long time
when you would talk to your parents about,
hey, maybe don't use Facebook.
I know this happens to me at least, right?
Personal anecdote.
"Hey, maybe you don't use Facebook,
you use cellular data."
And the response is always like, "Well, who cares?
I'm not doing anything bad anyway, why does it matter?"
And I think we've seen very much a reversion to,
"Hey, actually, maybe I don't want my insurance company
to know everything about me
and my family's medical history," type of thing.
And people are starting to care about it again.
And somehow we're getting that genie back in the bottle,
which is great.
- The internet used to be, it's this thing on the side.
It was like a hobby or something you were interested in.
Like, oh, I'll go on the internet and I'll read,
read some user forums or I'll search for some interesting
thing that I might be interested in.
And now it's become all encompassing, right?
Tech and everything else is interwoven so much
that I think people are starting to realize like,
oh, if all of these companies can buy, sell and exchange
too much information about me,
then that might actually have a real effect
in my regular life, my day-to-day life, right?
It's not just like, oh, I get weird ads
on my hobby time off that I fiddle with the screen.
Like, no, this is everything, right?
And so we're gonna talk a little bit about the laws
and the rules that are coming into place,
a little bit of these changes,
but mostly some platforms that you all are creating
to allow companies, especially large companies
with complex data intermingling to abide by these laws
and be good citizens of this new world
that we're talking about.
- Yeah, absolutely.
And I think that's another thing we've seen
as part of the shift of consumers caring about privacy
is you also have individual engineers
or individual contributors or managers
or people within the organizations
that regardless of what laws may require them to do,
they also do care about building privacy respecting software
just as the right thing to do.
And I think we've seen a general trend in that as well.
So that's been good to see.
>>Victor: Yeah.
Well, I'm looking forward to exploring the ideas and then
the platform as well.
Before we get to that, though, let's start with your story.
How did you get into programming, Python, privacy,
all these things?
>>Joseph: So I actually studied politics in college.
But my best friend was a computer science major.
And when I found out that in college
he was already freelancing, working at home,
and making way more money than I did in my part-time job.
I was like, hold on.
I think this computer science thing might have a future.
So I was just kind of self-taught,
and I ended up doing some data.
I got a data intelligence job right out of school,
despite having zero relevant experience or knowledge.
And I was told a week or two in to--
I was working on this case that we had.
And I had to pull stuff from API and put it in a database.
and I had basically never really written a line of code before.
And I somehow ended up on Python and somehow ended up
with MySQL, and I made it work.
And just from there, just fell in love
with really the problem-solving aspect of coding
and just creating value from basically nothing, right?
Yeah, I can just see how that search goes.
How do I easily pull data from API?
Use requests in Python.
I go, OK.
Yeah, it was probably something similar.
I think I had a friend in the Slack team at the time
that was into Python or something.
And I think I just ended up on Python.
And it's been one of the best accidents of my life.
Now, however many years later, still working with Python
daily.
Yeah, excellent.
And now, what are you doing for a job?
Yes, I'm working at a company called Ethica.
So we focus on privacy tooling for engineers,
specifically or in a broader sense these days,
working on privacy tools in general
that can be kind of a meeting point
between engineers and compliance professionals, right?
So like the compliance team lawyers,
things of that nature, your company,
trying to build a common ground for them
to kind of build off of and work together.
- Excellent, it sounds really fun.
And you've got a cool platform
that you all have open sourced.
And we're gonna talk about that in a minute.
But let's keep it high level for a moment.
I talked about the swinging pendulum
where it went to like, "YOLO, I don't care.
Internet's fun, it's free, it doesn't matter to you.
Oh my gosh, it matters.
I want my privacy back.
I can't believe people are doing X, Y, and Z
and not just showing me ads with this."
So we got the GDPR, obviously,
that made such a huge splash
that made me personally scramble to meet the requirements.
And what I think is really interesting about that is
those kinds of laws,
and maybe I could get your thoughts on this.
I think it's a bit of a problem or challenge.
And these kinds of laws, you can just see through the veil.
Like, okay, it talks about internet company or something,
but what they mean is Facebook, Google,
There are five huge companies or something in the world, most of them on the West Coast
of the US that are like bullseye.
The sites are on them and these laws trying to apply to them.
Yes.
In general, outside of it too, but like it's those five or whatever that really were the
catalyst for this.
Whereas, small companies like me are like, "Oh, well, I have to have a recorded history
of an opt-in, not just an opt-in in principle, but I need the date and a time and I need
a record.
So I got to go rewrite my systems so that I can have a record of opt-in for communications
if I have it.
And when there's one or two of you at a company, that shuts the company down for weeks.
When there's 10 people at Google that I got to stop and go do that, Google just keeps
going.
And so there's this tension of, I think, unintended harm
that can come from these by asking
for a blanket equal compliance
when they're really what the laws are written for
and people have in mind are like these mega trillion dollar
companies that have unlimited money to solve these problems.
How do you see that in the world?
- Yeah, it's been, so I think specifically
with the CCPA, which is the California Consumer Privacy Act, they kind of noticed that and
there is actually a cutoff, I believe, I want to say something like revenue or valuation
under 50 million. So there is kind of a safety clause for smaller businesses because like
you said, when GDPR came in and it just went after everyone, right, irrespective of size
or resources. And it was actually more of a punishment for smaller companies because
Because like you said, if they come for you, Michael, and they say, "Hey, talk Python.
You're doing great.
You've got all this data.
All these people are buying courses, but you're not keeping track of consent or whatever.
You're a one or two person team.
Now you've got to stop for weeks."
And Google and Facebook, they have the privilege and the ability to, yeah, they're going to
hire privacy engineers and they're going to try to do things the right way.
But if they could find a few hundred million, it's just the cost of doing business.
they are calculating these fines as part of their annual spend.
And that's just how they do it.
Whereas for you, that could be something
that ends your business or puts you in hot water
or does something else.
Or maybe just you don't even want
to do business in the EU anymore because it's
too much of a hassle compared to what it was before.
So I think, yes, GDPR really misstepped there.
And it did end up punishing a lot of smaller businesses.
But I think they've learned from that.
they're trying to iterate on it.
I think cookie consent is a big one.
They're now kind of revisiting that and saying, hold on,
did we implement this the right way?
Did everyone implement this the right way?
And I think the CCPA is building on that
in a really good way.
And we can see there's also a lot of shared language.
So I think that even though GDPR was,
it was disruptive and it probably hurt the people
that it didn't mean to hurt, at least initially,
that it was still a pretty good base for us to work off of
just in terms of a general privacy framework
and will hopefully get us to a place that's a little bit more equitable in terms of who's being punished and who's actually dangerous.
And like you said, it was like a few outliers that brought about this requirement, right?
It was Facebook acquiring WhatsApp and then doing uncool things with access to both data sets.
It was things like that, that this was designed to stop.
And I think slowly we're getting to a place where it's being wielded more in that vein.
Yeah, the US Supreme Court has not ruled yet on Section 230, but who knows what that's going to unleash.
That's a whole other topic. We're not on that one.
But you know, I mean, there's still large waves like that could crest and crash and whatnot.
I do want to come out and say explicitly, I'm not against the GDPR, and I'm not unhappy that I changed my systems around to comply to it.
It's really important to me.
I've talked to advertisers and told them,
no, we're not inserting tracking pixels.
We're not inserting other types of retargeting stuff for you.
If you need that more than you need to talk to my audience,
you go find some other audience.
Like, I've told them to go away.
And usually they're like, okay, fine.
We'll work around it.
But I also just want to kind of put that out there.
It's like, look, these rules come in aimed at the top
and sweep up a bunch of other people as well, right?
So I think there's like this mixed bag,
I guess is what I'm trying to say.
- Yeah, there definitely is.
And funny you mentioned that, like there are,
I was shocked for you to see to find out
that there are podcasts I'm subscribed to,
not yours, so don't worry.
Podcasts I'm subscribed to that I can't even download
on a VPN because it is just like,
there's some tracking requirement that my VPN blocks
that it won't even let me download the episode,
which is just crazy to think that that's kind of the point
where we're at, even with podcasts.
- It's really terrible.
And a lot of that I think comes from people
wanting to do dynamic ad insertion.
- Yeah.
- Right, they wanna go, okay,
this person is coming from this IP address in this town,
and we have this extra information we've gathered
from like these nefarious back channels.
And we're pretty sure, pretty sure that's Thomas,
and he works in tech, and we're gonna offer,
we're gonna dynamically insert this, you know,
And if they if there's walls that stop that, then then maybe maybe not.
Yeah. Let me go on one more really, really quick rant here.
Just absolutely.
Cook this cookie consent.
Now, I'll try to not be on the soapbox too much for this.
But I think right here at the CCPA, the California law, this right to
non-discrimination for exercising your rights.
When I look at the Web these days, those all these cookie pop up notifications,
They're like the plague.
They're just everywhere.
Many of them just say, you have to just say, OK, or go away.
And it's like, OK, well, that's not a lot of control I have.
On the other hand, we have a lot of technology control.
I have on my network, I have NextDNS,
which will block almost all the tracking and retargeting
and all of that stuff.
I use Vivaldi with the ad blocker on.
And I'll go to these places, and they'll say, turn off your ad
blocker.
They'll show you the cookie thing,
and they'll say, turn off your ad blocker.
If you don't turn it off, you don't get to come in.
I think what they should have done
instead of having a law that says,
you have to tell people you're tracking them
and then make them press okay
and then track the heck out of them.
Say like kind of this last line here in the CCPA,
say there's a right to non-discrimination
for exercising your privacy
and say, you should be able to have an ad blocker
or other tracking protection mechanisms
without being punished or blocked
compared to the other visitors.
That would have solved it.
And there'd be no need for these pop-ups everywhere.
We could just, if as a informed citizenship,
if we decide we wanna run ad blockers
or other types of tracking blockers,
we can and we just go about our business, right?
Like that would have been a more sophisticated solution,
I think, than making everybody say,
"Okay, I agree, you're tracking me, let's go."
Yeah, this is-- yeah, obviously, I
think it's being contentious, right?
I can barely remember the internet now,
despite it being just a few years ago, when--
and now it's just so normal.
You go to a website, and you're just waiting, right?
You're waiting for the other shoe to drop,
and the thing pops up, and you click the thing.
Where's the cookie?
OK, I got it.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Exactly.
It's in the top or the bottom of this one?
Yeah, it's a mini game every time you go to a new website.
And there are even browsers now that
have a toggle of just project.
Just don't show me cookie consent.
Just do it for me type of thing, right?
I accept them.
Yeah.
And it's, you know, I understand why it was there, right?
They want people to be aware of what's going on, but it's kind of like, you know, you lose
their end user license agreements or whatever.
Like people don't, like people don't really stop to read if you're informed.
Right.
And again, this is where actually I think the talking about non-discrimination and kind
of the privilege of being more privacy where there are a lot of people, right.
If you, if you look at, you know, someone like my parents who, you know, they're going
to go to the websites, they're going to see the thing that's like, "Hey, we're using..."
They don't know what a consent cookie is.
They have no idea what the concept of tracking our website is.
They don't know what the data is actually used for, anything like that.
So once again, it's just kind of an inconvenience that I don't think really increases anyone's
privacy, especially because a lot of companies are still using the dark pattern of you can
click yes, track everything, but if you want to reject or you want to only give the required
it's like another step or two and it's unobvious and it's like, you know, just a tiny little hyperlink text
You have to click on it's not a big big flashy button light gray on dark gray
Exactly
Something like that
Yeah, so I think we're finding our way still we're not totally figuring it out. There's there's attempts
Sometimes I don't really have the outcome. I think people intended like this cookie consent one
But there's still the idea behind it was pretty good, even if the way it came out wasn't that great.
At least my perception. I know some people really appreciate the ability to have those buttons,
but I just said like I'm just gonna block it no matter what I answer is not coming through, so I don't care.
But
companies have to live in this world, right? They have to live in a world where the pendulum is swinging back.
So,
I guess, you know, we talked about GDPR and I really want to go too much more into it
at this point because we talked about so much.
There's an interesting article called the 30 biggest GDPR finds so far.
And it's not updated for this year, but people can look through and see what kind of, you
know, it's the it's exactly the companies that I described for the most part, except
for there's like some weird ones in here.
I don't know if you've seen this article, but there's like H&M, this German clothing
company where they like film their employees and then like shared that internally. And
that was the violation, which was unusual. But so these are the ones that people might
know. Go ahead. What are you going to say about that?
I was going to say that a lot of people actually forget. I think that's an interesting one
specifically because GDPR has kind of different classes of people that protects. And actually
employees is absolutely one of them. Because a thing that you will see is companies will
use internal employee data and say, well, there are employees.
They don't have data privacy rights because they work for us.
So we can use their information however they want to be.
You can't do that.
Right.
GDPR says specifically, yeah, you can't sell your employees data.
You can't use their, their, you know, biometrics for whatever
you want to, all that kind of stuff.
So I think it is really important.
Uh, also that H&M got fined for that because it's showing, Hey, you have
to treat your employees as well as your customers when it comes to data privacy.
And I think it's pretty cool.
Yeah.
It's not just your web visitors.
It's the people that.
- Exactly, it's trying to protect everyone
no matter what the relation is to said company.
- Another one I think that just highlights
the greater subtlety of all of this
is this article in the register entitled
Website find by German court for leaking visitors
IP address via Google fonts.
Are you familiar with this at all?
- Yeah, I'm vaguely familiar with it.
I think it's an interesting case
because you can see the fine is 100 pounds, right?
Sorry, not pounds, 100 euros, which
ends up being 110 US dollars.
And so I think it was very much meant
to catch news headlines and just kind of warn people, hey,
we've now kind of decided the Google Fonts is not
going to be great.
And so this is a very inexpensive warning
to everyone else that maybe you should start looking into if
you're using Google Fonts or not.
Yeah, I find this very interesting because, again,
it's almost like the cookie consent thing.
This will ripple across most websites probably.
- Right, I think people think about Google Analytics
and some of these other like conversion tracking systems
that you plug in and you're like,
okay, I realize we're tracking.
But even like really subtle little things
like linking to an image of a YouTube video.
- Yeah.
- Like that will like drop cookies from YouTube
and Google onto your visitors.
and all those things, you're like, wait a minute,
I just pointed an image, like that's nuts.
And this is like this, when I read this,
I thought, oh, maybe there's like one person
that sued this company and they got $100 or something,
I don't know.
But what if they had 100 million visitors
and everyone decided, oh, we'll do a class action lawsuit.
I mean, it could explode.
Like, I think that's why it caught the headlines so much.
- Yeah, and so most of the time it is,
like with these violations,
and this is where it even gets a little bit sticky
because individual countries, data protection,
kind of agencies will go after companies, right?
So like if you are, for instance,
a lot of big ones happen in Ireland,
because again, a lot of tech companies,
especially like Silicon Valley tech companies
have headquarters in Ireland.
So you see the Irish, you know,
privacy authority levy a lot of these fines in some cases,
although people have criticized them
for being kind of lenient.
But I think in this case, it was very specifically,
you know, for, like you said, for one reason or another,
someone or the government just kind of decided,
hey, we need to call out this Google hosted web font
and kind of warn everyone else that,
hey, maybe you shouldn't be using those.
I don't know, it is very interesting.
And I think I feel like a lot of these going to the radar.
- I think they do it.
I don't even think they name the company
that this was applied to.
By the way, people, if they're like, but what do we do?
Fonts.bunny.net is a really cool option.
Zero tracking, no logging, privacy first,
you are compliant and a drop-in replacement for Google Fonts.
So people should check that out if they're like,
I kind of want this functionality,
but I kind of don't want it anymore.
Yeah, so that's a pretty cool option.
All right, so that sets the stage a little bit,
but let's maybe talk about some of the problems
that large organizations have.
So I know that you worked at a large organization
where it was like, we have this,
what data do you have about me request
or how do you use my data request?
And I can only imagine at like a multiple thousand person
company, there's these databases and people like dip
into them and take something and who knows where it goes.
And then they hook with some third party other thing
and then like, it's off to the races.
Like, tell me what you did with that.
Like, I don't know.
- Yeah.
- It's out.
Yeah, it feels like maybe this is too much of an American
cultural reference, but like, I take a penny, leave a penny,
but for data, right?
Like, you might drop something in there,
you might take some out.
No one really knows where it went.
It's just now circulating in the broader economy.
And so with that company, this is my last company,
also a startup, and I was a data engineer there.
So I've been mostly a data engineer until my current
position, and it got to the point where,
and this is gonna sound crazy, we were,
Luckily, through the power of Snowflake and DBT and things
like that, we were able to actually replicate
a data warehouse per country.
So all of our EU data stayed in EU.
All of our Canada data stayed in Canada.
We were basically just spinning up as many warehouses
as we needed to.
So when CCPA came online, we were like, all right,
we're spinning one up in California,
and then the rest of the US has one somewhere else.
But that's obviously not sustainable.
We were a relatively small data engineering team,
automated most of it, but it was very clear that became a huge problem.
It might be sustainable if it's Europe, US and other, or something like that.
Right, exactly.
Like Australia was slowly going to get on that list.
Yeah.
We're like, all right, the US people, they get no protections.
We'll sell them like crazy.
The Europeans will be real comfortable with them.
The Canadians, they're nice.
We'll kind of be nice with them.
Um, but these are, we're seeing this stuff pop up more and more, like more
regionally and it's getting harder and harder to.
>> That was the problem when it's California and then the rest of the US,
which at the time it was a few years ago.
Okay, so we have a data center in California to comply with CCPA,
and then we have a data center outside of California and we're good.
I was like, well, Virginia just passed a security law.
I don't think we have servers in Virginia.
I'm like, Idaho just passed.
I don't know if there's server farms in Idaho.
It became a problem like that where you're not going to
spin up 50 data centers, one in each.
Hawaii probably didn't have data centers.
Energy's expensive there.
- But they did, if you need to spin them up,
you need to do it in person and it's gonna take a month.
- Yeah, exactly, exactly.
It was very true. - I'm sorry, I got a bad tan,
but the data center's coming along.
- Yeah, so it was, so that complexity, right?
So all these different laws.
But then on top of that, like you said,
putting in the access controls
for figuring out where data's going
And how, so definitely having a tool like dbt, which if people don't know, it's kind
of like a very programming focused data analytics tool, building models and stuff.
So we had a good lineage draft of where all the data was coming from, what it was doing,
but we still had to document our use because legally you have to have a valid use for every
piece of data that you are storing in there and things like that.
And so I was just spending more and more time in calls with,
you know, our security team and our privacy professionals,
our compliance team, just answering questions of just like,
hey, here's a gigantic graph of all of our tables,
all of our databases,
just everything we could possibly be doing.
Like, how does data flow through here?
Like explain to me how this PI goes from here to here
and what it's used for exactly.
And that kind of, as we talked about before,
It scales-- sorry, it should be, I think, just DBT.
>>DBT, that's the wrong one, I know.
>>Probably happens all the time.
And-- but that's not really scalable.
So again, we talked about before,
this ended up punishing smaller companies a lot more because--
so if you're Google, you can throw--
you can just hire 20 people out of nowhere,
call them privacy engineers, and just say, hey,
It is now your full-time job to just keep track of these things
and help us stay compliant.
But if you're a smaller company like we were,
then a lot of that fell to myself and the data engineering
team, and then, of course, the product engineers as well.
And so that makes it really difficult.
That adds a pretty large burden to doing business.
And after being there for a while,
I then had an opportunity to come work at Ethica.
And I was absolutely sold on working at Ethica
when they said, we're trying to build a platform
that allows engineers to just handle this
like engineers like to, which is with automated tooling,
with CI checks, with open source--
yeah, with the YAML files, with open source Python code.
And I was like, hey, this sounds great.
I'm spending most of my day worrying about this anyway.
I'd love to just get paid to solve
this problem for other people.
And that's how I ended up at Ethica.
And it's been a journey ever since.
And I think one of the challenges of tackling
something like this, it's like we just talked about.
It's such a broad problem space.
So you can come in and you can handle
the cookie consent thing, right?
But then they're gonna say, well,
to have a holistic private solution,
we also need to handle knowing what our code does
and data mapping and DSRs,
which I know we're gonna get to a second.
So there's actually, it's like this multi-pronged--
- DSR-- - Thing you have to tackle.
Yeah. - What's the DSR stand for?
- Yeah, so DSR is data subject request.
And that is-- - What data you have
about me kind of thing.
- Exactly, exactly.
So I think one that people have probably heard before
is there's also like the right to be forgotten
is included in that.
So that's the ability for me to go to a company and say,
"Hey, I would like to see what data you have about me."
And so you actually, I'm gonna give you my email, right?
And that's my primary identifier on your system.
I'm gonna give you my email,
and then you need to go scour your entire infrastructure
and every piece of PII and data you have related to me,
you need to get back to me in a CSV format
so that I can very easily see what you're tracking.
Then you have, like I said, the right to be forgotten.
So that is, say I'm using BigCo's whatever email service,
and I don't want to use their service anymore.
And I say, hey, I'm sending you a request
to delete any and all data related to myself.
So I no longer want to be your customer.
I've deleted my account.
everything with, you know, John@somecompany.com.
You need to take that email, run it through your system
and delete every single piece of PI related to it.
- Yeah.
- And so these are the, these are kind of like
privacy protections we're talking about,
but that stuff is, is complicated.
And so.
- Yeah.
Well, I talked earlier about how it was really challenging
for small, small companies.
I think this thing you're talking about now is,
it's actually not that bad for small companies.
I think it's killer for the medium-sized business
that doesn't have the Google-sized tech team to track it,
but they've got a ton of people that mess with it
and a ton of data. - Yeah, and a lot
of complexity. - A lot of integrations.
Yeah. - Yeah.
And that's an interesting thing we've seen
is that a lot of times when people are out of compliance,
it's not actually because they are malicious
and they don't care about people's privacy.
It is because they just, they physically cannot.
If you go to someone and say, "Hey, you have 100,000."
This is not uncommon, like 100,000 Postgres tables.
And you need to tell me exactly where every bit of PI is
in those 100,000 Postgres tables.
It's not gonna happen.
Like no one actually knows, right?
There's probably people that have left that may be new.
And now there's some dangling Postgres database out there
in AWS somewhere that has PI that they don't even know about.
Just doesn't even show up on their maps anymore.
And that's the biggest challenge is that
It's not people, you know, doing things out of malice, it is purely the technical scale
of the problem is just huge.
And again, like I said, even Google with an army of privacy engineers, or meta with an
army of privacy engineers, they still get fined all the time, because it's just not
really possible to catch everything manually at that scale.
And that's what most people are still trying to do is to do everything manually.
What about bad actors?
By that I mean there are companies that try to do the right thing like mine.
You can go to the website.
I spent a lot of this part of that two weeks.
There's a button, download everything you know about me and there's a nuke my account
completely wiped me off the face of the earth as far as you're concerned.
And to my knowledge, those are totally accurate and sufficient.
However, what if there's a company that says, "Here's all the data I have with you and here's
the places I share it," and they leave out the three most important and dangerous ones?
Do you know what recourse there is?
Because it looks like they're complying.
It looks like I requested the thing, they gave it to me.
I asked it to be deleted, they did.
Except in that dark market where they're selling it to shadow brokers for ad data and credit
card mix-ins, and that's way more valuable.
We'll keep that.
Yeah, I mean, this comes down to somehow that we just have to get found out.
There'd have to be an internal whistleblower.
There'd have to be an investigation.
There would have to be some kind of audit because they do, as part of GDPR,
you are required to submit things like a data map, which we'll talk about in a little bit,
which is basically, where is data going?
What is our valid use for said data and all that kinds of stuff?
But like you said, if there's a truly bad actor that is leaving things out
reports on purpose and not letting customers know that they're doing certain things with
their data. I'm actually not sure how that would get kind of discovered.
I think you're right. Maybe a whistleblower or maybe somebody says, "There's no way this
data got over there without going through there." And so I'm going to try to get some
legal recourse to make you show us, make you testify, at least lie under oath.
And even this was this actually was a big sticking point recently, Florida is also,
you know, working on their own privacy law.
And a big sticking point that I believe may not go through was that they could not agree
on whether individual citizens should be allowed to sue companies for data misuse or it should
be purely something the government handles.
And I think that's, that's an interesting thing to think about.
It is.
It's one of those things that sounds amazing.
Like, yes, sure.
If you're abusing, you know, company X is abusing Thomas, Thomas should have some direct
recourse, but you could easily destroy a company just by going like, let's give 50 people to
all, like, here's your cookie cutter letter that we send over as part of the legal process
and just knock them offline, right?
Knock them out of business.
So I can see both sides all over again.
All right.
So I kind of derailed you.
We were talking about the types of things that these medium scale organizations really
get hung up on.
And you touched on some, but...
Yeah.
So, sorry.
Let me...
go back. So number one is just the largest issue that we see. And this scale is actually
anywhere from medium to large, right, even with Google, and you'll probably have Twitter
size, you know, kind of the thing. I would also bet really good money, there's no one
there that really knows where everything is. It's just it's just too much to handle manually
or within people's heads. So the number one problem is that people don't know where their
data is. That's a huge issue. The number two problem is even if they know where all that
data is, right, theoretically in a perfect world. If someone gives you an email and says,
hey, you need to delete this email across all of your tables. Okay, I know we have this
email in this PI and 100 tables and three different API's that we use because we use
whatever Zendesk and Salesforce. Okay, so you've got that information in a perfect world.
How do you actually execute that?
Like, there are plenty of companies that have someone on staff full-time
that just fulfills these DSRs and write to be forgotten and things like that.
So it is not really efficient to say, "Okay, I've now got to manually go run
SQL queries in 100 different database tables, 100 different databases.
I've now got to log into three different APIs."
And it's just...
It's not... It's, again, not doable in an automated...
You need to automate it.
I'm trying to say.
Even if you know where everything is, how do you automate that?
That's another problem we're trying to solve.
Then finally, it's the data mapping piece.
You need to understand.
You not only need to know where your data is,
you need to know what type of data is and why you have it.
That's really difficult.
Because maybe three years ago,
I did some proof of concept where I was grabbing
people's addresses and trying to figure out
a way to find cheaper shipping for our e-commerce website.
And whatever, the table's still there.
And so then three years later, someone comes and says,
hey, I found all this PI in this database.
Why didn't you collect this?
What is this for?
And I've already moved on to another company
because it's startups.
And that's a problem, because you
need to have a valid use for every bit of PI
that you have in your system.
And so it's this lack of documentation and knowledge
that just brings about all these problems.
And again, without automated tooling,
it's just, I just don't think it's really feasible,
which is kind of again, where Ethica saw a place
to solve a huge problem.
- Probably also a little fear.
By that I mean, the time, the short times that I spend
at these larger companies,
there were systems that were like, don't touch that.
That runs, it's important, nobody can make it,
nobody can fix it, we probably can't redeploy it.
Just don't touch it.
And what if it has a bit of data?
It cannot have a nullable foreign key relationship.
No, that's a strong...
I wouldn't remove it from this table, but the thing that shall not be touched and no
one can keep it.
It's my problem if I break it.
I don't want that problem.
I can just stay.
That's a problem, right?
Yeah, that definitely becomes a problem too.
Things that get forgotten about, things that people don't want to touch, things that they've
have lost the institutional knowledge of how it got there
and how to even get out of it if they wanted to.
Like you said, a fear of downstream breaking changes.
So say I come in and mask this username.
I have no idea what--
if it's going to break some analytics tool,
if it's going to ruin our marketing department.
I have no idea.
Right.
Why can't we get an email anymore?
Well, you see.
Yeah, exactly.
And so it's also this difficulty of communicating
across the organization.
Because oftentimes you'll get privacy engineers
and they'll be embedded into a product, into a team.
And theoretically, this is to talk across the entire org,
but there's not like some centralized tool.
There's no Zen desk of privacy where like,
okay, our whole organization uses this one tool
and we can put in tickets,
or we can see what the state of privacy
is across the organization, et cetera, things like that.
There's nothing like that that really existed.
And so that's when we kind of realized,
okay, we need to build some kind of platform
where it can just be like a one-stop shop
for everything privacy engineering related.
So that's gonna be engineers and privacy professionals.
The engineers do their work.
It all flows upwards into this tool.
And then the compliance professionals
can get all the information they need out of that tool
and trust that it's correct
because it's done in a programmatic way.
- And it's automated and all the stuff that you need.
- Right, yeah.
Now really one final question
before we jump into your platform
which solves many of these problems.
What about AI?
What if it learned something through personal information
and then you ask for your personal information
because you forgot.
(laughing)
You can't go and show me like the node
in the neural network that has my information.
- Yeah, exactly.
- But at the same time it knows something, right?
- Correct.
Yeah, so it is trained.
There are different ways to deal with this.
So for instance-- but like you said,
you can never really know.
So I mean, this is rabbit hole.
So you can use AI to generate fake PII
and then train a model on fake generated PII.
That's one way to do it.
But again, like you said, due to the very opaque nature of--
and like you said, we're talking about actual neural nets.
We're not just talking about machine learning,
statistical learning models.
It's like a neural network.
That stuff becomes completely obfuscated.
- Like mid-journey, dolly,
- Yeah, exactly. - things, yeah.
- Yeah, it becomes truly a black box.
There's really no way to know, right?
And that comes down to regulators stepping in
and again, just saying,
"Hey, you cannot use KAI in this model,"
regardless of the fact that eventually,
theoretically, it would be obfuscated.
You know, that comes down to governments just saying,
"Hey, that's not cool regardless."
- It's gonna be so interesting as this evolves
'cause if it was trained on that information,
it kind of is corrupted in a sense.
Like you can't take one person's information out.
You'd have to read the model.
- Exactly. - And it's so much work.
Yeah, it's so tricky.
So you gotta think of that up front.
All right, so let's talk about your project, Fides.
Tell us about Fides.
- Absolutely, so Fides is an open source,
I guess, tool for, platform maybe is a better word for it,
an open source platform for privacy engineering.
And it's really designed towards those two personas
that I've talked about,
where you have privacy professionals,
you have a compliance team,
and they need an easier and a more accurate way
to interface and work with the engineering team,
other than just calling cons as you can call us to ask them,
hey, what does this table do?
Which again, it's fine, like that's their job.
They're supposed to be doing that for protecting the company
and protecting the privacy of the user's data.
But then on the other side, you have engineers.
And engineers, they probably don't want to be
in these Zoom calls all the time.
And they would probably much rather interface
with privacy engineering in a way
that's more familiar with them.
So CI checks, command line tools,
YAML files, like we mentioned.
And so we thought, okay, we need to build a tool
that bridges that gap, right?
Like we need to create an overlapping set of tools
that both sides will be happy with
and that provide a good user experience for both sides.
And so we have Fides, right?
So Fides is primarily Python.
Pretty much everything's in Python.
We also have TypeScript for the front end.
We use a lot of other open source stuff
and we're also on GitHub.
So anyone that wants to use this for themselves
is totally able to, right?
Because we kind of fundamentally,
I think as a privacy company,
it's important to believe that privacy is a human right.
And so while we do have some paid features,
the vast majority are completely available.
Like compliance is completely available for free
and open source.
So we don't think we should be saying,
hey, your privacy is really important,
but only if you pay us.
(laughs)
But we think any engineer should be able to come
and look at our repo and grab FIDA's
and then start working off of it
and be able to respect user privacy
within their applications
without having to really pay anything.
- Right, and since you brought it up,
so Fides is this open source project
that people can grab and fulfill and automate
much of what we've been talking about here,
which is awesome. - Correct.
- And your business model with Ethica is,
I guess what you would probably classify as open core, right?
Like you-- - I think, yeah,
that's how we refer to it internally.
- Is that how you consider it, yeah?
- Yeah, open core.
We have, internally we'll call it like Fides Core,
which is this repo, which is where a lot of the work--
it's not like you'll see most of my PRs are in there.
So Fides Core is really what we build on.
And then we have an additional, what we call Fides Plus.
And that is where you would get additional features that
are really more like enterprise focused.
So if you are--
like I said, we're talking about those medium to very large
enterprises where you have 100,000 tables,
and maybe you want a machine learning classifier
to help you figure out what kind of data is in those tables,
then that'd be a paid feature.
But if you just want to--
- Like you kind of bootstrap it, like,
we have this data, go look at it
and tell me what you think about it, something like that?
- Yes, exactly, exactly.
So it'll walk databases, tables, fields,
all that kind of stuff, and say,
hey, this is probably this type of data,
this is probably this type of data.
You know, obviously, as accurate as we can get it.
With the most part, things are going to be happening
in OpenCore.
So in the OpenCore product, we are
going to tackle the three major things that we think
are going to be required for any kind of privacy-first
application.
So first, we're going to let people--
and you can see for all the YouTube viewers, video viewers
on the right side, we've got YAML files.
So YAML files are where you're going
to define the primitives you want
to use for your application.
So we have data uses.
you have different data category types,
and you can define systems, data sets,
kind of the building blocks of how you're going to describe
and define your application from a privacy perspective.
Once you've done that, right,
once we have all this information
that you've given us as metadata,
you've given us about your application and your data sets,
we're then able to start enforcing that automatically.
We're able to start building those data maps
and telling you, you know,
hey, based on what you told us
in your metadata annotations,
This is everywhere your data lives,
and this is the type of data that lives there.
Additionally, based on those, we're going to say,
hey, if you give us an email,
we have actually an execution engine
with a bunch of different connectors.
And we're going to say, okay,
so you've told us you have a Postgres database here,
and you have a Mongo database here,
and we're looking for this email,
and these tables are going to be where the PII is.
So it'll automatically go and execute that,
like it builds on top of Dask,
but we're kind of doing our own logic
for some kind of directed acyclic graph, right?
To go out and find that data and delete it in the right order
or to retrieve it in the right order
and then give it to user request.
So we're really leveraging this power of using metadata
to go ahead and automate all these tasks.
We'll also more and more as we go into the future,
we're trying to figure out ways
to just automate it completely.
So if we got to a point where engineers
didn't even have to write these YAML files
and we could just introspect the code
and figure out quite programmatically
what was actually going on there,
what we need to be concerned about.
That's kind of where we want to get to
and where we see the future of privacy being is,
especially with the incredible explosion
of these large language models
and things like chat, you begin open AI, right?
Doing some kind of natural language processing
to allow us to understand what the code is doing
without burdening developers with writing YAML
is where we hope to get to eventually as well.
- That's ambitious, but five years ago,
would have said, Oh, that's insane. Anymore. You have these large language models, good
chunks of code, and they have a really deep understanding of what's happening. It's scary.
Right. It's Yeah, so it's very impressive. So for now, we're still in we're still in
YAML land, hopefully engineers are pretty comfortable there. We've been there for a
while, I think with Kubernetes and all kinds of other tools. But yeah, hopefully, we just
we just want to keep lowering the barrier to entry for for privacy compliance. And for,
you know, building applications that are private by design.
- Right.
So in the parlance of your all's website,
that's privacy checks as code and continuous integration.
The two other things are programmatic subject requests
and automated data mapping.
It sounded like you touched on the automated data mapping,
but talk about the programmatic subject.
- Yeah, so the programmatic subject request
is what I mentioned briefly about
kind of how we build an execution graph
for when those data requests come in.
So again, like I said, we have that metadata,
we know where your data lives and what type of data it is.
So when a user says, "Hey, here's my email,
"please get rid of all the information you have about me."
We're able to do that subject request programmatically
because we know, okay, we're gonna reach out
to the Salesforce API, we're gonna reach out
to this Postgres database users table
where we know that data lives.
And we're gonna do that for you automatically
'cause like I mentioned before,
There are plenty of relatively large and relatively small
enterprises where there is someone on staff full time
waiting for these emails to come in.
And then they say, okay, this email needs to get deleted.
And I've done this before, so I'm not above this.
When I was a data engineer,
we had to do this as well in Snowflake, right?
Something comes in and they say, okay, I've got this email.
Now I need to go to these 20 systems
and run all these manual scripts
and hope that I don't do it in the wrong order.
Because like you said, if there's foreign key constraints,
you need to know about that.
Because if you do it in the wrong order,
it's going to mess things up.
So we basically handle all that for you based on the metadata.
>> Cannot complete transaction.
There's a foreign key constraint violation.
Sorry.
>> Correct.
And so knowing that and being able to figure that out,
that stuff is important.
So we will handle that.
And then like I mentioned with the data mapping,
so this is really, really important
for compliance professionals.
because this is like their bread and butter.
They have to be able to produce these data maps
to show compliance with GDPR.
And that's going to show all the systems
within their application, within their enterprise,
and then what those systems are doing and with what kind of data.
And that's really important. And again, we can generate all this
based off of the YAML file.
And for engineers, the thing that we have is
what we call privacy checks as CI code,
or privacy checks as code in CI, where we're shifting privacy left, kind of the same way
that we saw with security, right? Where you went from, okay, we pushed our application out,
and now a security team is just going to play with the production version and figure out where
there are problems. Right. We're going to disregard security. Give it to you, and then you tell us
how you broke it. Correct. Yeah, basically. Yeah. But that's how a lot of companies treat privacy
now too, is like, we'll kind of figure it out in production, right? Like ship it, we'll figure it
it out in production. And now you see, oh, actually, there are really great static analysis
tools for code, right? You have Snyk, you have various other open source versions that
were like, hey, we're going to scan your code before this commit even, and are like, are
you leaking secrets? Have you stored anything that maybe shouldn't be? And so we're trying
to do that for privacy as well, right? So we're shifting privacy left. And based on
this metadata and based on the policies you defined,
we can say, "Hey, you've added this new feature
and you've annotated in YAML.
Now you're stating that this system is
using user data for third-party advertising,
and we're going to fail your CI check.
We're going to throw an error and say, "Hey,
there's a violation here of
this privacy policy that your company has because you
define you're using user data in this way,
and that's going to break that."
So again, that's just a way to short circuit
that whole thing of, OK, the engineers have shipped it.
And now someone comes running back and says, hey, hey,
why did you ship this?
You're using personal data in a way you're not supposed to be.
So we're trying to get around that by saying,
pretty early on, we'll know what's going on.
And we can avoid pushes to main or deploys
that don't pass the CI checks.
- Okay, so as an engineer writing software in this,
guarded by this feed, it's my,
I have to be proactive and state how I'm using data
if I'm bringing new data into the system
or does it somehow get discovered?
- No, so that is currently what is required.
It is up to the engineers to maintain that YAML.
So we're working on ways to automate that.
And we actually have automated it for datasets
because it's obviously much more programmatic.
So if you say, hey, here's my application database,
here's my Postgres database, and I've
annotated every field and all that kind of stuff.
So we can automatically scan that.
We'd say, hey, in your YAML definition,
you've left out these two columns, which maybe you
added in this PR, right?
And so before that PR goes in, it's going to remind you, hey,
you need to add these two new columns to your dataset.yaml
so that we know what's going on
in those new database columns.
- Okay, I can see how you might do a lot of introspection,
like, oh, I'm using SQL model
and here's the pedantic thing describing the table
and here's the two new things,
but then you could also traverse the usages
of those two columns and see where they're used elsewhere
and possibly, is there any API call
that is like that data is being passed to, for example?
and like, "Oh, is it coming out of..."
Exactly.
You might be able to find the common integrations
and see what's happening there.
Yeah, that's exactly what we're looking at next.
Like I said, looking for ways to automate this.
Even if we just had a really basic dictionary of like,
"Hey, these APIs are going to be related to storing or sending user data,"
and making sure that's annotated.
And like you said, maybe some of those code-level annotations
are using--
like if you think about Pydantic,
where you can have the field object,
and you can define, OK, here's a field.
Here's the default. Here's the description.
And then if there was another field that was privacy category,
data category, whatever, data use, or data subject,
something like that, that's absolutely
something we've been looking at as well,
of kind of like the next step.
Because we know, again, this comes down
to this is still partially manual,
and therefore still potentially error-prone.
As long as we're scanning databases,
that gives us some guarantee that there's probably not going to be
an entirely new thing that we miss out on.
But if it's sending you third-party APIs or something,
it would still be possible.
That's the holy grail we're trying to get to,
is how do we just make this even easier for developers?
How do we lower the barrier even further?
Because we know this is still somewhat of a barrier to entry.
but also hopefully still a huge step up from nothing.
- Yeah, no, it's great.
And if your job is to put together a system
that can explain how it's using data
and how that's enforced and how you're checking that,
then something like this seems way better than code review.
Not instead of, but it's certainly a huge bonus.
- Correct.
Yeah, correct, in addition to.
- Yeah.
So what we discussed here, this part feels like
a GitHub Action type of plugin as part of a CI stub
or something along those lines.
What about the other ones?
So for example, the programmatic subject request
that's gonna cruise through the data
and pull out the things, either show people what they got
'cause they asked for it or delete it.
Is that, like how does that run?
Is that something you plug into your app?
Is that a service that just has access to your data?
- Yeah, so that would be something.
So we actually do have a hosted version of VDEZ, right?
So for companies that don't want to bother
kind of hosting their own, you know,
a database and web server and things of that nature,
we host it.
But all this is stuff that you could self host as well.
Like you can deploy in your own instance.
So we have something called the Privacy Center,
which again is a thing that you spin up
and you run on your side that actually would then,
you would then link to and that is then what would
direct the privacy requests to your backend
if he does web server instance.
And then that's where you would go
and you would go, we call it the admin UI, right?
Like the admin would log in
or the privacy person would log in.
They would see, oh, these are all the requests
that have come in.
I can approve these, I can deny these, et cetera, et cetera,
based on what's going on there.
Yeah, so we have the kind of the pre-deployment
of the code would be the checks in CI
and writing all those YAML files.
And then once you deploy the application,
we have these runtime tools,
like you said, these subject requests,
and that's all stuff you would deploy.
Most people would do it during the Docker containers
that we build and publish,
or you could just download it and run it directly.
Pip and Snow.
- Yeah, okay, interesting.
So basically there's a web app that you log into
and you can either self-toast it or that can be yours
and then it goes and does its magic at that point.
What about the data mapping bit?
- Yeah, and the data mapping is something
where you can either log into the web portal,
because it's gonna be assumed
that most privacy professionals,
most of them have legal backgrounds
are probably not gonna wanna mess with command line tool.
Although we do have a command line tool, right?
For the engineers.
So if you're an engineer,
you can of course run a command line,
you know, command that will give you
the properly formatted Excel document or CSV
if you want it with all of the rows in there that you need.
Or again, like I said, if you're a privacy professional,
you can log in with UI and download it that way
and just have it generate it.
It'll hit an endpoint, and then it
will just give you the file back.
OK.
Seems really neat.
You talked a bit about this automated checks
with looking at the code to try to reduce
the need for explicitly stating how things work.
And you've got this ML higher order piece
that will hunt down the private information.
Where else are you, what's the roadmap beyond those things?
Where is it going?
- Just as much as you can talk about.
- Yeah, yeah, I mean, just more and more automation, right?
'Cause again, if we look at the ultimate goal
is how do we just make privacy easier?
Because it's not going away.
It's only going to get more stringent.
The fines are only going to get bigger.
I think it's interesting that that kind of GDPR fine list
ended at May, or was it May or something, March 2022.
Since then, fines have actually only been getting bigger.
They're basically making fines larger and larger and larger
'cause they realize these tech companies
just don't care for the most part.
And so it's becoming more and more dangerous
for people that aren't compliant.
So, okay, how do we just make this as easy as possible?
We know that there are people
that probably don't want to maintain a multi-YAML.
So it's really just anything along those lines
of how do we lower the barrier to entry
for people that want to be privacy compliant
and use Vita.
So like you said, that's going to take the form
of probably more machine learning models,
NLP models that are going to help us introspect the code.
It could be things like the in-code annotations, right?
Where like, okay, maybe there's now,
In Pydantic, there's now a field to add privacy information,
or maybe in DBT, the analytics we talked about before,
which I know is used by a lot of companies.
Maybe we add metadata in there where people can now define
what PI is being used in there, and then we can just kind of natively read from those files
instead of having to have our own file format, things of that nature.
Really, we're just looking at any possible place
and getting feedback from people of where their pain points are and how we can help solve them.
- Sure, do you have any runtime things
that you're thinking about?
You've got the deploy stuff with the YAML,
you've got the on request stuff with the other things,
but we saw this JSON document come in.
It had email, we don't know.
- Yeah, so interesting you ask that.
So we have done some research since improved concepts.
I don't know if you're familiar with something called eBPF.
It is a way, UPF, so it's a way to,
I believe it's in Linux kernels,
to actually monitor the traffic
going back and forth between,
basically over the network, right?
And so what we've been able to do
is if you have an application running in Kubernetes,
then we'll deploy something and call a system scanner.
And it is runtime, and what it's doing
is it'll actually watch the traffic that's happening
across your application in Kubernetes,
and it will come back to you and say,
hey, you've got these systems,
they're talking to each other in this way,
and basically build a map kind of automatically.
So this is a really useful tool
for if you're already running everything,
and you just want someone to tell you what you have running
and kind of build a topography for you,
tell you all your systems, tell you all your datasets,
tell you what the traffic looks like
across your application, then yes, we are working on a tool that can do this.
Okay, yeah, this ebpf@ebpf.io looks nuts.
They've even programmed the Linux kernel for efficient networking, observability,
tracing and security. And yeah, you could just say things like, these are all the
outbound connections all of our systems are making. And these IPs are easy to resolve too.
We know this one is Mailjimp. We know that one is Zendesk. What's this one?
Correct.
Yeah, exactly.
So it's like, OK, so we see that we're
making a bunch of calls to MailChimp,
but you haven't--
you've never mentioned in your metadata
that you're talking to MailChimp.
We now know that that's something
we need to worry about, right?
So this is also something that we have--
Yeah, this is a little bit of what
I was thinking about at runtime stuff.
Like, can you watch the data flow and go, OK,
this is inconsistent with what you've told me is happening?
Yes, exactly.
So the way it works now is you would deploy our system
scanner into your environment, into your Kubernetes
environment.
It sits off as its own set of nodes.
And it does its thing.
And then after a certain amount of time,
it'll just come back to you with, hey, this is what we saw.
And it'll actually build the YAML files for you.
And say, this is kind of the definition of what we saw.
Very wild.
All right, that's cool.
That's cool.
So we're getting real short on time here.
I guess maybe give us just the quick report
or thoughts on how the OpenCore business model
is going for you all.
I feel like going through the life cycle of this podcast,
just had the eight year anniversary for running the podcast.
I've talked to a lot of people.
- Congratulations.
- Eight years ago, it was a lot of,
we accept donations and mostly.
- What's the successful story for open source?
Mostly, at least traditionally at that point,
had been I'm a maintainer or major participant
of this important library,
so I got a really good paying job at a high-end tech company
and high-end tech company gives me 20% time
to work back on it, right?
Kind of like I've got a benefactor-like employer
a little bit.
And it's moving more and more towards OpenCore
and other things, I'd say both GitHub sponsors and OpenCore
and then incredibly some like really interesting VC stuff
that's happening as well.
Those are not disjointed necessarily, right?
Anyway, I think long story short,
I think the OpenCore stuff, people really hit on
with something that's seemed like it's kind of working
for sustaining open source.
Yeah, I think we've seen the similar, very similar thing.
I think that we are, it is really hard to walk that line,
but kind of where we've come down on it is,
you know, with the belief that privacy is a human right,
all the tools required to be compliant
need to be open source, kind of like full stop.
So for instance, like data mapping,
that is a legal requirement.
We're not gonna put that behind a paywall.
handling those privacy requests, building those graphs
and being able to go execute those, that is a requirement.
You have to have that to be compliant.
We're not going to pay all that.
That's the line that we're trying to ride.
Is it okay, anything that makes it super easy,
the machine learning stuff, the kind of runtime scanning,
all that kind of more advanced stuff that's more cutting edge,
more R&D, then we'll probably put that on the paid offerings.
right? But anything required to just get things running, because we know we
actually have some very, very large companies that are using FIDA as purely
open source, like they don't, they have zero contract with us, they don't really
have any contact with us. But we know they're using, we know they're using
FIDA regularly to do their internal privacy. And that's, I think that's a
good place to be, right? If, if three years ago, when you had to implement GDPR
stuff for talkpython.fm, and you stumbled across this tool that could just help
you do that. And instead of two weeks, it was two or three days.
Like for me, that still feels like a huge win. And there's
still enough. There's still enough enterprise customers who
have 100,000 Postgres tables that want us to help them
classify, right? There's still enough of those people out
there to make it sustainable. And it's also a competitive
advantage. I think it's easier. It's easy for people to just
think that, oh, because it's open source, you're kind of
throwing away contracts you would have had otherwise.
We've had a lot of people engage with us because we're open source.
And it's not even that they don't want to pay.
They're just saying, hey, we like your paid offering, but the fact that you also are open
source and you have an open core model we can go look at and contribute to and put ideas
into, that's really attractive for a lot of engineering teams.
Because, again, that is one of our target markets.
Yeah, I think traditionally looking back quite a ways there was.
I need a company and a private commercial software behind this, so I have a SLA and
someone to sue when things go wrong.
And that's still the you might be able to do that.
You might be able to crush that company because they did you wrong, but you're
still not going to get your bug fixed in your software working any better because
of it.
Right.
And I think people are starting to see open source as the escape hatch, right?
Like I can work with a company that has this premium offering on top of open
source, but if worse come to worse, we'll just fork the repo and keep on the
list. You know what I mean? And that way, I think a useful and constructive way,
then we're going to try to sue them to make them do our deal. Right?
Yeah, exactly. Talking about privacy engineering is being about risk
mitigation. Having an open source product is also quite a bit of risk
mitigation. It gives engineers time to get comfortable with it. Like you said,
They can fork it.
We're very open to pull requests and people opening issues
and feature requests and things of that nature.
So it just really makes it a much more pleasant process
when you're just more transparent and more open.
People can go and look at the code themselves.
If they report a bug, they can probably
go see it getting fixed in real time, et cetera,
things like that.
I think it's definitely the way that I prefer working
as an engineer, I can't speak for management or anything,
but it's definitely more fun to be able to engage
with the community in that way.
- Awesome, well, I'm happy to see you all
making your way in the world
based on your open source product.
That's really cool.
So I think we're about out of time
to keep going on the subject.
So we'll have to just wrap it up
with the final two questions here.
So if you're gonna write some code,
work on VDes or something else Python based,
what editor are you using these days?
It's VS Code. I think it was pretty hardcore Vim until I think at one point you had someone
on your podcast that was evangelizing VS Code and I went and tried it and I was like, oh,
I'm very obviously more productive now. So I've stuck with VS Code ever since then. That
was great. Thank you for doing that. >> Yeah, you bet. And notable PyPI package?
Yeah, I'm going to give two here pretty quickly.
The first one is Knox.
I think I also learned about it from this podcast.
This is how you talk Python.fm driven development.
Anyway, so we were using make files before because I do a lot of work on the kind of
dev experience, dev ops side.
And so I was a big make file user.
And when I basically heard, hey, it's like make but more powerful and in Python, I immediately
but we tried it out and I think spent the next three days
just completely rewriting our Makefile in Knox.
It's been great.
It has been so empowering for the other developers.
Whereas before, Makefile was pretty archaic
and it was pretty much only myself that would touch it.
Now, the other developers feel very comfortable
jumping into Knox and also being cross-platform.
I develop on Windows and literally everyone else
at the company develops on Macs.
So it gives us a much more cross-platform way
to handle scripting and building and things like that.
>> Yeah, make files are quite different over
on the Windows side.
>> Yes, yes, I learned this the hard way.
It was very, very often it was like,
it works on my machine type of stuff going on there.
And then finally, just another notable package
is rich click.
And that is, people don't know, rich
is a package in Python that makes text output,
like terminal output, look very, very nice.
And that is a nice wrapper on click
that makes click look very, very, very nice
because it's wrapped in RID.
So our CLI uses this.
I think it looks great because of it.
So I'd also highly recommend that if you're
into looking for a more modern feeling CLI
with a lot of flexibility and formatability.
>>So it gives you kind of automated, colorized help text
and usage text and like option.
- Yeah, and you can customize that.
A really, really powerful thing also is that
it will understand markdown in your doc strings, right?
So if you want to get a little more fancy,
it also has kind of its own language that you can use.
So yeah, it's been really nice
'cause I was feeling a little bit jealous.
Our UI looks really nice and our CLI didn't.
And so I went and wanted to find something
that would make the CLI look a little bit nice
to poly engineers.
>>Victor: It seems like, ah, that's kind of superficial.
Like, who cares?
Color for your silly CLI.
It makes a big difference.
The information--
>>Thomas: It makes a huge difference.
It makes a huge difference.
Yeah, it really does make a huge difference.
>>Victor: Awesome.
Well, I think we're going to leave it here with this.
But Thomas, thanks for being on the show.
It's been really great to have you here.
And a lot of fun.
>>Thomas: Yeah, absolutely.
Thanks for having me.
>>Victor: And a lot of privacy.
Yeah, good luck with the project.
It looks great.
- Thank you.
(speaking in foreign language)
- Yeah, see you later.
[BLANK_AUDIO]